README.md, before:

# genact - a nonsense activity generator

[![CI](https://github.com/svenstaro/genact/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/svenstaro/genact/actions)
[![Docker Hub](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/svenstaro/genact)](https://cloud.docker.com/repository/docker/svenstaro/genact/)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/genact.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/genact)
[![license](http://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/svenstaro/genact/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/svenstaro/genact.svg)](https://github.com/svenstaro/genact/stargazers)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/svenstaro/genact/total.svg)](https://github.com/svenstaro/genact/releases)

**Pretend to be busy or waiting for your computer when you should actually be doing real work!** Impress people with your insane multitasking skills. Just open a few instances of `genact` and watch the show. `genact` has multiple scenes that pretend to be doing something exciting or useful when in reality nothing is happening at all.

![](gifs/cc.gif)
![](gifs/memdump.gif)
![](gifs/cargo.gif)

## Installation

<a href="https://repology.org/project/genact/versions"><img align="right" src="https://repology.org/badge/vertical-allrepos/genact.svg" alt="Packaging status"></a>

You don't have to install anything! For your convenience, prebuilt binaries for Linux, OSX and Windows are provided [here](https://github.com/svenstaro/genact/releases) that should run without any dependencies. **Additionally, there is a web version at https://svenstaro.github.io/genact/**

It's compatible with FreeBSD, Linux, macOS, Windows, and most modern web browsers that support WebAssembly.

**On FreeBSD**: You don't have to do anything special here. Just run

    pkg install genact
    genact

**On Linux**: Download `genact-linux` from [the releases page](https://github.com/svenstaro/genact/releases) and run

    chmod +x genact-linux
    ./genact-linux

**On macOS**: Download `genact-osx` from [the releases page](https://github.com/svenstaro/genact/releases) and run

    chmod +x genact-osx
    ./genact-osx

A homebrew package is also available. To install it this way, run

    brew install genact

On macOS, you can also install via MacPorts:

    sudo port install genact

**On Windows**: Download `genact-win.exe` from [the releases page](https://github.com/svenstaro/genact/releases) and double click it.

It is also available on Scoop:

    scoop install genact

**With Cargo**: If you have a somewhat recent version of Rust and Cargo installed, you can run

    cargo install genact
    genact

**With gah**: If you are using [gah](https://github.com/marverix/gah), you can run

    gah install genact

## Running

To see a list of all available options, you can run

    ./genact -h

or

    cargo run -- -h

or (on Docker)

    docker run -it --rm svenstaro/genact -h

### Usage

    A nonsense activity generator

    Usage: genact [OPTIONS]

    Options:
      -l, --list-modules                               List available modules
      -m, --modules <MODULES>                          Run only these modules [possible values: ansible, bootlog, botnet, bruteforce, cargo, cc,
                                                       composer, cryptomining, docker_build, docker_image_rm, download, julia, kernel_compile, memdump,
                                                       mkinitcpio, rkhunter, simcity, terraform, weblog]
      -s, --speed-factor <SPEED_FACTOR>                Global speed factor [default: 1]
      -i, --instant-print-lines <INSTANT_PRINT_LINES>  Instantly print this many lines [default: 0]
          --exit-after-time <EXIT_AFTER_TIME>          Exit after running for this long (format example: 2h10min)
          --exit-after-modules <EXIT_AFTER_MODULES>    Exit after running this many modules
          --print-completions <shell>                  Generate completion file for a shell [possible values: bash, elvish, fish, powershell, zsh]
          --print-manpage                              Generate man page
      -h, --help                                       Print help
      -V, --version                                    Print version

### Web usage

In the web version, you can run specific modules by providing them as `?module`
parameters like this: https://svenstaro.github.io/genact?module=cc&module=memdump

You can also provide a `?speed-factor` like this:
https://svenstaro.github.io/genact?speed-factor=5

## Building

You should have a recent version of rust and cargo installed.

Then, just clone it like usual and `cargo run` to get output:

    git clone https://github.com/svenstaro/genact.git
    cd genact
    cargo run --release

## Releasing

This is mostly a note for me on how to release this thing:

- Make sure `CHANGELOG.md` is up to date.
- `cargo release <version>`
- `cargo release --execute <version>`
- Releases will automatically be deployed by GitHub Actions.
- Update Arch package.

Commit message:

docs: 添加语言选择功能说明和Web界面语言切换
README更新:
- 新增"Language Selection"章节
- 说明三种语言设置方式的优先级
- 提供CLI和Web版本的使用示例
- 列出当前支持的语言列表

Web界面改进:
- 在页面顶部添加语言切换导航栏
- 提供英语/简体中文快速切换链接
- 使用终端风格的深色主题保持一致性

README.md, after:

# genact - a nonsense activity generator

[![CI](https://github.com/svenstaro/genact/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/svenstaro/genact/actions)
[![Docker Hub](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/svenstaro/genact)](https://cloud.docker.com/repository/docker/svenstaro/genact/)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/genact.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/genact)
[![license](http://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/svenstaro/genact/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/svenstaro/genact.svg)](https://github.com/svenstaro/genact/stargazers)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/svenstaro/genact/total.svg)](https://github.com/svenstaro/genact/releases)

**Pretend to be busy or waiting for your computer when you should actually be doing real work!** Impress people with your insane multitasking skills. Just open a few instances of `genact` and watch the show. `genact` has multiple scenes that pretend to be doing something exciting or useful when in reality nothing is happening at all.

![](gifs/cc.gif)
![](gifs/memdump.gif)
![](gifs/cargo.gif)

## Installation

<a href="https://repology.org/project/genact/versions"><img align="right" src="https://repology.org/badge/vertical-allrepos/genact.svg" alt="Packaging status"></a>

You don't have to install anything! For your convenience, prebuilt binaries for Linux, OSX and Windows are provided [here](https://github.com/svenstaro/genact/releases) that should run without any dependencies. **Additionally, there is a web version at https://svenstaro.github.io/genact/**

It's compatible with FreeBSD, Linux, macOS, Windows, and most modern web browsers that support WebAssembly.

**On FreeBSD**: You don't have to do anything special here. Just run

    pkg install genact
    genact

**On Linux**: Download `genact-linux` from [the releases page](https://github.com/svenstaro/genact/releases) and run

    chmod +x genact-linux
    ./genact-linux

**On macOS**: Download `genact-osx` from [the releases page](https://github.com/svenstaro/genact/releases) and run

    chmod +x genact-osx
    ./genact-osx

A homebrew package is also available. To install it this way, run

    brew install genact

On macOS, you can also install via MacPorts:

    sudo port install genact

**On Windows**: Download `genact-win.exe` from [the releases page](https://github.com/svenstaro/genact/releases) and double click it.

It is also available on Scoop:

    scoop install genact

**With Cargo**: If you have a somewhat recent version of Rust and Cargo installed, you can run

    cargo install genact
    genact

**With gah**: If you are using [gah](https://github.com/marverix/gah), you can run

    gah install genact

## Running

To see a list of all available options, you can run

    ./genact -h

or

    cargo run -- -h

or (on Docker)

    docker run -it --rm svenstaro/genact -h

### Usage

    A nonsense activity generator

    Usage: genact [OPTIONS]

    Options:
      -l, --list-modules                               List available modules
      -m, --modules <MODULES>                          Run only these modules [possible values: ansible, bootlog, botnet, bruteforce, cargo, cc,
                                                       composer, cryptomining, docker_build, docker_image_rm, download, julia, kernel_compile, memdump,
                                                       mkinitcpio, rkhunter, simcity, terraform, weblog]
      -s, --speed-factor <SPEED_FACTOR>                Global speed factor [default: 1]
      -i, --instant-print-lines <INSTANT_PRINT_LINES>  Instantly print this many lines [default: 0]
          --exit-after-time <EXIT_AFTER_TIME>          Exit after running for this long (format example: 2h10min)
          --exit-after-modules <EXIT_AFTER_MODULES>    Exit after running this many modules
          --print-completions <shell>                  Generate completion file for a shell [possible values: bash, elvish, fish, powershell, zsh]
          --print-manpage                              Generate man page
      -L, --lang <LANG>                                Set the UI language (e.g., zh-CN, en)
      -h, --help                                       Print help
      -V, --version                                    Print version

### Language Selection

`genact` supports multiple languages. You can set the language in several ways (in order of priority):

1. **Command-line argument**: Use the `--lang` or `-L` option
   ```bash
   genact --lang zh-CN
   ```

2. **Environment variable**: Set the `GENACT_LANG` environment variable
   ```bash
   export GENACT_LANG=zh-CN
   genact
   ```
   
   On Windows:
   ```cmd
   set GENACT_LANG=zh-CN
   genact
   ```

3. **System locale**: If neither of the above is set, `genact` will try to detect your system language from the `LANG` environment variable

4. **Default**: If no language is detected, English (`en`) will be used

Currently supported languages:
- `en` - English
- `zh-CN` - Simplified Chinese (简体中文)

### Web usage

In the web version, you can run specific modules by providing them as `?module`
parameters like this: https://svenstaro.github.io/genact?module=cc&module=memdump

You can also provide a `?speed-factor` like this:
https://svenstaro.github.io/genact?speed-factor=5

## Building

You should have a recent version of rust and cargo installed.

Then, just clone it like usual and `cargo run` to get output:

    git clone https://github.com/svenstaro/genact.git
    cd genact
    cargo run --release

## Releasing

This is mostly a note for me on how to release this thing:

- Make sure `CHANGELOG.md` is up to date.
- `cargo release <version>`
- `cargo release --execute <version>`
- Releases will automatically be deployed by GitHub Actions.
- Update Arch package.
